the questions that you asked the agent
is going to affect the quality of the
thing that you get out.
>> This is Michael Bolan, tech lead for the
open-source codeex repository and former
distinguished engineer at Meta. And we
talked about how his career grew.
>> So I was like, all right, hackathon
totally going to like make a new build
system. You know, it relatively quickly
had something that was dramatically
better, like at least like twice as
fast.
>> He shared about how OpenAI engineers
actually use codecs. I almost feel a
little bad writing code by hand.
>> Well, what percent of your code would
you say is human written?
>> You know, because every time I sit down,
I'm like, should I write this? I mean,
the answer is almost always no.
>> And we discussed AI research versus big
tech engineering cultures. What are your
thoughts on that? Research-led culture
versus engineering culture.
>> I mean, it was certainly an adjustment,
right? I mean, I think if anyone who
comes here and says otherwise is a liar,
but here's the full episode.
I was looking deep into your website and
there was something most everything I
could find more information about, but
there's this one thing that you seem to
be pretty excited about at the time, but
I couldn't find any information about it
because all the links were dead. What is
chickenfoot? Oh man, that's strangely
relevant because it's uh it was my my
master's thesis pro project.
>> Uh it was a Firefox extension. Uh
probably one of the very few that was
written, you know, in JavaScript for
Firefox as a thesis project. And it was
a it was actually a little coding tool
in a sidebar of Firefox and it was like
a little uh ripple. It was called end
user the idea was end user programming
for the web. And so there were functions
like enter and click and things like
that and you'd say enter and you know
have pass a string arg and it would like
find the box and you'd say click search
or whatever and um and you know a lot of
the work was all these heristics that we
built under the hood that if you said
you know enter first name finding the
like the words first and name and
finding the text box that was closest
and then like using that and then
through JavaScript like using that as
the input and I just think about that
now because it's really funny. We did
all you know a lot of work and that's
>> you know a lot of what these agents are
doing right now right is like similar
but now actually truly in natural
language like not in this little like
JavaScript ripple.
>> Oh interesting. So it parsed the front
end and had this ripple where you could
say I don't know find the the first name
field and you know
>> yeah we'd use like you know the the
accessibility tags and alt alt text for
images and we'd you know and and it
worked well. um was really good at
Craigslist actually because that's one
of the simplest uh websites you could
you could use. But I had I had friends
who like made like automated tasks and
like made real money off of things they
automated with this tool which was
really fun.
>> When you entered the industry you were
really excited about going to Google and
specifically working on Google Calendar.
Yeah.
>> Um so what drew you to Google and what
was that like? Yeah, I mean, you know,
so I, you know, got online in the 90s,
right? I remember, you know, browsing
the web and it was at a time you'd go to
like you try five different search
engines to like hopefully find the thing
that you wanted. And I, and it's funny
because I distinctly remember my
roommate in March of 2000 saying like,
"Hey, there's this site, this search
engine that looks a bit better." I think
it was still stanford.google.edu.
And I was like, "Oh, this is better."
And like, you know, and then you started
reading and they they were just so
different, right? Yahoo was all like
very cluttered and like they tried to be
very sparse and um were more I think
principled about it at that time and
then you know like a lot of things you
start seeing people who you know who
gets a job there and you're like oh man
they're taking really good people like I
want to work with with those people and
I felt like they just you know really
got the web like especially at that time
like Microsoft didn't around that time
Microsoft killed the internet explorer
project alto together and I was like
this is the portal into the web and you
guys are you know, dismantling it.
Whereas, you know, Google was way more,
you know, web forward. And so, between
that and like the quality of engineering
and the and the impact they were having,
you know, certainly a place that I was
really excited to go to coming out of
school.
>> And what was the culture like there at
the time? Like, um, I think in some of
your writing, you talked about like
product versus infrastructure. You know,
a lot of companies, especially ones that
get big like that, you know, it's kind
of like whatever they were good at first
is I feel like the founders always have
a have a soft spot uh for, right? So, uh
certainly in information retrieval and
and infrastructure, right, were like key
to, you know, growing that that company.
And um whereas I was drawn there at the
time because like, you know, they put
out things like Gmail, right, which were
vague, right? But it didn't um it still
I think didn't have the the same cache
inside the company right as the as
search and that sort of thing. Um and so
you know we when I was working on it
calendar it was still like mostly
consumer it was like kind of it was also
sold to enterprises right but like we
were not the ones making the money like
we were probably a call center right at
that point in time.
>> I saw eventually you you ended up
leaving Google and I from your post it
looks like it was pretty bittersweet. So
what left you to leaving Google?
>> I had been there for 4 years. Um and you
know uh I mean realistically like
investing was a thing like finances
definitely changed after that four-year
period uh ended. But you know also it
was just tough like I I had a I guess a
bad habit at that point of working
really hard on things that like really
were important to me but maybe weren't
important to to Google, right? So like I
worked on calendar that was pretty
important. Um and then I worked on
Google tasks which was like a very small
feature within calendar right like
probably at least two to three orders of
magnitude fewer users right but I was
really passionate about it and then I
was really passionate about um the like
the JavaScript infra and the the the uh
closure that that suite of uh JavaScript
tools and um you know it's great I mean
I enjoyed and I'm proud of all the
effort that I put into the things um you
know that I went and wrote the the book
on closure because I was motivated, but
uh career-wise maybe not the best move,
right? You're like, "But I'm doing all
this high quality stuff," and you see
other people getting recognized. You're
like, "But I'm working so hard," you
know, like that's, you know, kind of
like the the harder not smarter uh type
of mistake. Um and so, you know, it's
kind of like I should go somewhere or
try something else and see if like the
things that I'm excited about are the
things that like the company I'm working
at is most excited about. later you came
back into big tech and you you started
working at Facebook. I understand that
you were kind of like a JavaScript
expert at the time and then one of your
first big projects at at Meta was kind
of build tooling in the Android
codebase. So I want to know the story
behind how you got involved in in that.
So um at the time it was like Facebook's
going to make a phone, right? Actually
there were some failed projects but it
was like this time it's really going to
happen. we're gonna um partner with HTC.
we're going to like fork Android and you
know and and do some stuff and uh you
know so that seemed super exciting right
uh as a as a person you know just coming
into the company and and I you know I
had done like quite a bit of Java I was
more JavaScript um but uh at this point
this is also where
you know they called it what uh face web
the version of like they kind of like
put HTML 5 Facebook on the phone and
like that was clearly not working And um
it was clear that like you know mobile
was going to be the future. That was
kind of make or break for the company.
And uh suddenly
you know a friend was like hey like I
know you really like JavaScript but like
you should really pick Java or Objective
C and like get good at this if you want
to be a product person. And that was
really really great advice. And so I was
like well I like Java. I don't like
Objective C. So like let's go. Um, and
so that's how I, you know, found myself
on that project. Um, and I,
you know, we we had a very short
timeline because unlike almost every
other project, there was a hard
deadline. Usually, you know, you ship
when it's ready. This was like, nope, we
got to send a bill to HTC because
they're going to like burn it into
phones on like March 1st or whatever it
was. Um, so, you know, it was really a
scramble. Um, but and and
the the original Android code base was
or a bunch of it was also like inherited
from a contractor that Google paid. Like
it's like Facebook didn't want to make
like a native app and they paid some guy
and then it was like the app in the
store and they're like here the code's
yours now and we should have thrown it
away but we didn't. And there were a lot
of things that were that were
frustrating but also like iteration time
right I think for everybody if you had
been a web developer for such a long
time you're used to this edit refresh
and then you know it like the Android
build system was was rough right it was
this um like some build tools and ant
like there were no there was no way to
modularize it out of the bot like we had
to hack it up just to even have like
four modules or five modules or
something like that. Um, and it was so
painful to get anything done
uh that I was like, I need to I need to
fix the build system. Like I was like, I
know I've done a lot with Java. I know
it's not like fundamentally this slow to
like iteratively, you know, build this
sort of thing. And so, uh, you know,
Facebook has this hackathon culture. So,
I was like, all right, hackathon.
Totally going to like make a new build
system. um you know like unceremoniously
in the style of of Google's uh build
system. Um and there's actually another
build system called FB build that was
already a different uh mirror of of the
Google build system as well. Uh, that
one's written in in Python. I only did
C++. But, um, yeah. And I was like,
either I'm going to make this work or
and like and then I'm gonna be happy to
be a developer or like I don't even know
if I'm going to make it here because
it's just going to be like tearing my
hair out, you know, working on this
thing. And uh,
>> so if you if you didn't fix this, you
would have quit the company if it
>> was I mean it was I was like or I'll at
least switch projects or I need to find
a way to find a happy place, right? and
and come into work every day. Like I
came I want to write code. I want to do
work. I just want to you know try to do
my best work. Um and so it was funny
actually I give people credit. A lot of
people told me what I was doing was a
very bad idea. Um almost everybody
except one person. Um it was a senior
Android engineer. Uh but nobody said no,
you know, whereas I felt like at Google
like people said no more. Um, and so,
uh, so I just rolled with it and, you
know, I quickly, relatively quickly, had
something that was, you know,
dramatically better, like at least like
twice as fast or something like that.
And, uh, so that, you know, that turned
a lot of heads and people were like,
okay, you know, I guess we, yeah, we'll
go with that one, right? Like I think
the interesting thing to me is it seemed
like all the odds were stacked in your a
lot of people who are an engineer
noticed the same problem would not have
chosen to start the project because
there's an existing one and then also
Google's got some you know competing one
maybe you're not going to beat that one.
>> What gave you the conviction that your
your project could beat the other ones
and become the default?
>> Yeah I mean I guess a couple things. I
mean one like I said I you know I'd done
other Java stuff I was like like this
shouldn't be that slow or just as a
software engineer like this
fundamentally should not be as slow um
as it is and there yeah most of the
actually most of the push back was of
the nature like well if we deviate from
the standard thing um you know we're not
going to be on the standard thing and
what if it gets like 100x better next
week and now we're stuck on your thing.
Um which is really funny when you think
about it because there's like so many
things like you know making their own
you know uh PHP virtual machine at
language right like they've certainly
embraced doing their own thing many
times why this one was different I don't
know I mean it was it was just I guess
everything about mobile was like how are
we going to make this work I guess there
was just like a lot of fear and you know
again like timelines it's like we have
the senior person like why it seems
sounds like they're going to go off and
do a science project but we have a hard
deadline like is that the best use of
our of our time. Um, but you know, it it
worked out. It worked out. I will say
another thing too was um I also tried to
to couch it a little bit. I was like,
"Hey, I'm just I'm just trying to make
an Android build system. I'm not trying
to like take over the company. I'm not
trying to change anyone else's project,
right?" Um because I certainly felt that
that was going to cause more I was going
to invite more friction. Um, and so, you
know, I I knew that it it I tried to
make it in a way that it could support
more of the company, but I never I never
pushed it. And so I was like really
heartened when the year or so later the
iOS people were like, "Hey, our built
system sucks. Can we, you know, can we
use Buck?" I was like, "Yeah, sure."
Like I don't, you know, come on board.
>> Yeah. That that's also another
interesting because you you came in and
you didn't have a whole lot of
credibility. you were just hired
>> and then you're trying to build
something and get every and also
everyone's saying don't do this
>> and then you have to convince them hey
this is the right direction how do you
influence that change without any
credibility
>> I I mean I borrowed some um there's one
senior Android engineer you know who was
also ex Google um John Perllo and he was
like I think he said right he's like
you're going to do it just do it fast
before like anyone gets you know like
cancels you or something he's like but
I'll support you if you if you get this
done. So he was one of the first people
and he was a very prolific uh coder. So
he was like genuinely very happy to have
a faster dev cycle. Um so he was one of
the first people to you know give it
kudos and I think that that helped a
lot. Um also but I will say you know I I
made a big some big mistakes uh on my
way in there. you know, you mentioned
like about having no credibility is
like, you know, I came from Google and I
was like, "Oh, this is where, you know,
the Expell Labs people are like all
these like great people." And then you
go to like Facebook, you're like, "Oh,
it's a bunch of college kids. How could
they possibly know what they're doing,
right?" And you, you know, I made a few
times certainly I made the mistake like,
"Well, at Google, we did it this way."
And people were like, "We really don't
care." You know, and they were they were
right in in in most cases, right? that
like just because it worked there didn't
mean it was going to work here.
>> One one last thing on this topic is I
mean what you built was
way more performant than anything else
by you know many multiples. What's the
intuition like the technical intuition
behind what was done and what you did
that made it so much more efficient? I
think the the big thing was is that I
just sat down and looked at the um the
tool from Google and I was like what is
it actually doing right and and where
and uh I think the big thing is that the
Google one would kind of just if you
changed anything it would just start
over from scratch and so that's why it
was so slow especially for for
incremental builds and so then I started
really understanding like okay but what
depends on what because there is these
um still are I'm sure like Android
resources which had like a very bespoke
thing and it was it was complicated. Um,
and because it was somewhat complicated,
I think that's probably why I just by
default I blew everything away and
started over. Um, but once I got in
there and I was like, oh, okay, you
know, we can take advantage of it. If
these things don't change, then, you
know, we can cache this result from this
step. We don't have to redo it. And like
suddenly, you know, that made things
like quite a bit faster. And then also
just even um supporting the idea that
you could have more than like the four
modules that we had. I mean I think I
think every time someone added a module
you know they had to add like 200 lines
of XML of like AMP build script that
like nobody really understood and so it
was not so no one no one wanted to
modularize anything right you didn't
want to be responsible for that so a big
thing with buck was making it that it
was like a lot um simpler to add a new
module and so then that also meant we
ended up with more modules and then
builds are more incremental as a result
right so it's really a change in the the
mindset
>> so less redundant work basically
>> yeah after you saw solved this uh build
problems I guess in Android uh builds
and I obviously I went later to further
parts of the company. I saw that you
started to work more on like the IDE.
What was the problem that you saw that
you saw in ideides that made you want to
get into that? So I yeah I took I did a
brief stint after Buck on Messenger
uh uh iOS messenger. So I was like okay
I've done Android maybe I should
actually branch out even though I don't
like it. Um, and I still didn't like it.
Um, I people don't even realize in in in
Objective C, there's a thing that
happens for a long time now called ARC.
Um, like the automatic uh reference
counting like nowadays the compiler
injects it, but you used to have to like
actually add code into Objective C to do
every like reference count like memory
allocation.
>> Yeah. or like every reference that you
created like you would have to do it and
um and the and and most people have
never seen this type of code but the iOS
messenger code that came in through
acquisition was so old that it was still
written in this other way and it's it's
it's incredibly painful. Um I guess now
you'd have like codeex cleaned it up or
something like that but at the time we
just sucked it up and and and just Xcode
just didn't you know feel right to me. I
didn't like header files and
implementation files. I still don't. Um
and and also the I would say
for both Android and iOS, you know,
Facebook always had like the biggest
app, right? We had like one app with
every with every feature in it and we,
you know, would ship it as opposed to
Google with like they'd have like a
drive app and a no, you know, a Sheets
app or whatever. But they also owned one
of the platforms so they could put 20
apps by default on there. And so what
that meant was is that Facebook was
always hitting the scaling limits of
every mobile developer tool before
everybody else. Um which was painful but
you know actually as a dev tools person
was kind of interesting because we got
to solve problems that nobody had solved
before. Um and and like you know not
just as a science project but because it
was like real you know business value.
>> Um and so you know Xcode similarly we we
talked to Apple like hey Xcode is like
not really scaling to our project.
They're like, "Your project's too big.
You should make it smaller." Like that
was kind of the feedback that we got
from them. And so it seemed justifiable
to like go and build an an editor. It
was similar thing. It was like I was
like what is you know what is an ID you
know doing right? It's like it's talking
to clang like the language server and
that sort of stuff. I was like we could
build like a nicer shell on top of that
you know then we had started by that
point um deviating from git and
switching to Mercurial as a company. I
was like no one's going to support
material out of the box, right? And so
like that should happen and then like oh
actually if if buck is going to be our
build system then like we really like
you know like that's Xcode is never
going to do all of these bespoke
Facebook things right so it seemed
justifiable to like invest the time to
um to try to like improve that
experience and I didn't feel that way
about Android because Intelligj was
actually like quite good and we had
figured out how to make that work at
scale but but Xcode was a little more
difficult at that point. So there was
Xcode which was bad, didn't fit the
existing needs.
>> And then there was another IDE that
another team was building. I think it
was web- based if I it was it was web-
based. Um I'm not laughing at that part.
That part's fine. It was but it was
built off of uh an abandoned Google open
source project written in Gwit, which is
Google Web Toolkit where you would write
um Java and it would codegen to to
JavaScript for everything.
And um I tried to build on what they
had. I tried to build some credibility
even actually sped up their build a bit.
Um but again kind of like looking at the
iteration times and also I was like this
is an abandoned open source project.
it's written in Google web toolkit and I
was like we are the react company at
that point right right like how why why
would we not empower you know people who
want to build dev tools to use you know
uh you know to build on a you know
technologies that we are the leader in
and actually really like because you
know we think we're actually really good
um so I was like you guys are crazy and
so so I started go and and it's similar
to the thing where I you know I
mentioned with the book I was like, I
started it as the the Java build tool,
not the everything build tool, right? I
was like, it was a similar thing. I was
like, hey, I'm going to go over here and
start this other editor, but we're just
we're just going to focus on iOS. Like
you I'm not trying to take things over.
>> Yeah. You didn't want all the friction.
And I mean that team, they had all the
existing users though, right? They had
thousands of engineers.
>> I maybe a thousand. I think eventually
leadership sided with um what eventually
became New Clyde which is what you what
you built.
>> Um but why did they side with you when
you didn't have any users on your your
product?
>> Yeah, I mean I think it was combination
of two things. I mean, I think the the
arguments that I made in favor of um
like the technology stack to build on.
Um another was that um
uh newly was was a desktop application
and part of it was if this is actually
going to be a an iOS, you know, Xcode
replacement, like people are going to
want to use it need to be able to talk
to the simulator or plug in the phone or
whatever. Like in theory, we could go
through the web and do all those things,
but it just seems like a lot more a lot
of extra work. Um and um and I think the
other part is that you know I had built
up some credibility with the the buck
thing that um they're willing to like
take a gamble like well the last thing
you know worked out like we'll try this
one.
>> I saw that this in combination with some
of your other work led to your promotion
to E8 which is also known as principle
in the industry. What was your reaction
to that at the time? Yeah, I mean
certainly I was I was very excited. Um
you know I felt like you know in the
ways that I
um had been out of step. I felt like you
know when I was at Google I was like
this was also not just it was also
validation that like oh now I'm also
growing not just like technically but
like understanding like what it means to
kind of you know do the things that like
are in line with your uh employer. Um
and so like that also just you know was
equally valuable or satisfying. I I know
that uh Newcloud was open source and I
think Buck was as well if I recall
correctly. What's the rationale for open
sourcing if um yeah like what are the
pros and cons of open sourcing
technology that you build?
>> Yeah, I mean let's see the buck is the
more interesting one. Newly kind of
didn't really get adopted externally. I
I think in both cases I think
um you know all these companies have
benefited so much from open source like
there I think there's just a feeling of
like if this is not really the secret
sauce like let's let's share this with
with other people right like I mean done
like codeex as well and a number of
other things in my career so I do feel
like that that that sharing of
information is just good even if no one
uses your tool just as like seeing as a
reference of like how a thing could be
done um could be
um you know and in the in the better
scenarios you actually get you know
meaningful contributions back and and
things like that and um you know I
remember like I think Uber adopted Buck
I think Airbnb did like it was funny
right like I said like Facebook was the
biggest app so we would hit all these
problems first and then this next wave
of companies would start these things
and be like let's check out what these
guys did um I think I mean honestly we
also you know at at Google it the it's
internally it's blaze externally it's
basil. Uh so we were open source first
and we always do we always did kind of
wonder like if we put some pressure on
like you know we get and you know
ultimately I did I think I think I think
we've gotten a little bit of credit from
that unofficially from uh some of the
folks who worked on that but I think
also that you know we you know it's also
like a recruiting thing too or just
showing like hey if you want to like you
know being at like the you know the the
leading edge in like whatever area this
technology is and you want to do this
all the time not just as like a driveby
contributor like you know this is what
we do this we are and then this decision
to open source is this was this a
bottoms up decision where engineers said
we're just going to do this or is this
kind of also leadership buy in hey this
is going to be valuable and you got like
a dock is not
>> yeah I think I think both cases it was
certainly like bottoms up I don't think
so you know things like react and
pytorch like those are like the the big
success stories right where where the
value back to the company is like
unquestionable and then there's this
like longer tail of things where um I
think depending on the economy and other
things the managers get grumbly if they
feel like their engineers are like doing
too much open source or things like
that. So, it's almost almost always um I
feel like like bottoms up, I think.
Yeah, I would say that's that's often
the case. But it wasn't like met with a
lot of resistance, you know, and you
usually get like a good conference talk
or two and a nice blog post and and
those blog posts like, you know, do I
would say b pay dividends over time,
>> right? Recruiting stuff.
>> Yeah. And like they have like like a
longer shelf life than I think people
realize.
>> Okay. So, you got your your E8 promo at
this point and
>> I imagine the expectations uh maybe in
your mind are kind of going up a little
bit and now you need to go and find a E8
problem, I guess.
>> So, what did you do after you got proed?
>> Uh I think that's where I did a uh I I
got a little over my skis and I tried to
help with web speed, I think is what I
did. Um because again it was a thing
that was like a really big problem for
the like like the just the load time of
facebook.com was was not uh in great
shape. um you know the architecture was
a bit stale um and it was just um the
problem was so big and um and I didn't
have
I think the you know a lot of people who
had worked on web at Facebook had worked
on it for like a long time and like I
had you know put myself in mobile and
dev tools I actually wasn't in that
world and um I remember I was like ah
you know what do we do I mean actually
sat down with another person we started
like compiling piling V8 from source and
trying to see like if we could like
change the way that we generated
JavaScript, if it was like it'd be
friendlier to V8, like we're just trying
like wacky things. Um, none of which
panned out by the way. And I just it was
it was there's different there's
different people who are like good for
different projects and I think that was
just not the one. like I'm better in a
project that involves writing a lot of
code from the beginning and I think a
project like that was like more about
like looking at data and talking to a
lot of people and like I just that's not
my strength.
>> I think you mentioned at this point in
your career the the idea of a hero
quest.
>> Yeah.
>> What's what's that mean? the idea that
you know that uh it's like you know it's
embarrassing because there's like
something about ego this idea that you
know there's this like you know Gordian
not and all these engineers are like if
only someone would come in and like
solve this you know engineering problem
I was like I know JavaScript right
um just come in that way and uh but I
didn't I I definitely did not you know
uh and I think that um it's been an
important learning and I've had to
relearn it like at least one other time
that
you know I can do a lot of things but
there there is a smaller subset of
things that I genuinely enjoy doing and
that I'm going to be a lot more
successful right if I stay in the things
that I genuinely enjoy doing you know I
try to expand that over time but you
know we don't all have to be the best at
everything right I think that's we
should accept it and you know embrace it
>> so then how did you find the EA problem
after that like what was the next stair
>> that was uh I think a bit of luck as
well or I guess you know we had we had
sometimes we'd have these little summits
uh with like smaller groups of engineers
about like brainstorming what's going to
you know bite us in the future you I
mentioned like you know the repo keeps
growing you know they're going to hit
some scaling problem at some point and
um uh a person or my manager I think
became my manager uh Brian Ovin
um he decided to some people together to
like work on making a virtual file
system um to uh to to get try to get
ahead of that that problem. Um and so we
got myself and um Adam Simpkins and Wes
Furlong um you know both tremendous
engineers actually I was the worst
engineer on the project for quite a bit.
You mentioned a virtual file system.
What on a high level, what's the benefit
to a company like uh Meta for if you had
something like that?
>> If you uh have bought into the monor
repo philosophy, right? Put all the code
in one repo. Um you know, most things
that people do need only a subset of
that repo like have to look at the the
files at any point in time. And um so
the idea is that uh you know you design
all your tooling around this virtual
file system so that when you say uh
clone the repo or then you update to a
different commit or anything like that
you don't actually have to like write
out every single file in the repo on
disk when you make that change which is
which is the default in your you know
traditional file system because that uh
is going to grow proportionally to the
time with the the size of the repo right
so at some point you're you know going
to be very sad and um and Uh and so you
know there's actually kind of two at
least two parts to it. One is um
building this virtual file system that's
like hey I know the user at this commit
if if the operating system asked me for
the contents of a file like I can go get
it and it will appear like they had
actually you know laid out all the
files. Um the other part of it which is
the part that I maybe I was actually
better at I think is um then trying to
anticipate well we have all these tools
in our tool chain that are used to just
reading all the files you know you just
rip grap it just reads everything right
that sort of thing and how do we start
changing also our our development flow
and our tools such that they are um uh
designed with the virtual file system in
mind because if you just you know
materialize all the files with your tool
now you've like actually just lost all
the benefits that that you've made.
>> So on a high level, it's basically just
lazy loading a huge file system. So it's
more efficient because you don't need to
do everything at the beginning.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that part of this project that
you said you're better at
>> is is integrating everything into this
on top of that primitive.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So one thing that I did um
actually with uh Hansen Wong who's here
actually on the codeex team with me now
um was I was like oh okay you know the
the traditional way you have you know
you want um really fast file search in
your in your IDE and your editor and you
know the way most of these things do is
the first thing you do is they walk the
entire file system to find out what the
files are and I was like well that's
going to be a that's going to be a
serious problem right it's going to undo
all the benefits like and and then it's
one of these things is like not you know
first it was like okay how can me
implement file search that's not going
to undo all the benefits. And then it
was how can we do it even better than
how it's done uh today. And so we ended
up um building this file system called
miles for for my files and it um you
know on like kind of like a cron job it
would index um it would ingest all the
new commits that had come in on you know
on trunk and keep track of like which
files had been added or removed. So just
like the names of the files, not the
contents because all you need is the
names. And um and then and then Hansen
had some clever ideas about how we
maintained that index um such that we
could support fuzzy file matching. So
instead of just substring matching,
right? Like you type, you know, like a
if you have like a camelc case thing,
you want to be able to type just maybe
the uppercase letters or just your
spelling's bad or what have you. Um and
so it came up with this really uh
interesting way to represent uh you know
kind of all the files that had been seen
at some point and then some bits to
represent um you know if I'm at this
commit was this file present or not
present at that point in time and then
also when you ask you sent a query to
this thing so you'd send like what
commit you're at and like if you've
added any files locally or removed any
locally. Um, and I think we got this,
you know, like, you know, over a million
files in like, I don't know, like 10 to
20 milliseconds or something like that.
So that you would be in your editor, you
know, typing. And so that was way faster
than uh I think than you know, like what
Xcode or or like VSS code or something
like would give you um out of the box.
And uh so so that was you know, so like
it was solving a problem for Eden that
was the name of the file system
originally, the virtual file system. um
you know in anticipation before it was
even ready um but then it was so fast um
and it was available as a trip service
internally like people started using it
for all sorts of other things I think
when I left like I don't know I think
there were these like 30 servers running
mile like spread around the globe so
clearly that was more than just people
like personally searching for files and
then you did that much you know capacity
>> interesting yeah I mean when you talked
about I guess the implementation details
most most people They they don't use
leak code on the job. But that sounds
like I was thinking about the I don't I
don't even know how you put that. Is it
like a tree like a try thing?
>> No. So that's what's funny that Yeah. Um
this was this was pretty cool in that um
we we had kind of like two parallel
arrays. One was like the file contents
and one was uh maybe an integer into
that um index. I forget. And then we had
a we had a 64-bit um
uh mask that was like it was like so you
had like 26 lowercase 26 capital 10
digits and like maybe dash and whatever.
And uh and it would and it was uh every
bit was set if the um if that character
was used at all in the file that you
were searching. And so the first thing
was we could like blow through that list
and um you know exclude a bunch of
things like right off the top. But we
was also like very designed like all
these arrays were in parallel to each
other so that
>> for like cache wise we knew it' be very
efficient for for the CPU to to like
read memory you know linearly and then
it lend itself to you could just
partition that array it, you know, lend
itself to parallelism. Um, so it was
really Yeah, I should really probably
write it up at some point because I that
is really cool. It was It was f because
it wasn't just kind of like out of the
textbook. That's that's for sure.
>> I understand that. Um, yeah, you worked
on Eden and then obviously there's Miles
as well.
>> Um, and then these eventually led to
another promotion and um, but prior to
that promotion, there was some learnings
you might have had about influence and
conflict in org. So maybe if you want to
share that. Yeah, I mean that's
one of the things I guess about being an
E8 um who primarily writes code, right?
Um there's other people I'd say actually
the majority of people that level or
higher are not writing code, right?
They're they're actually kind of
exclusively spent doing more like
influence or working across teams, you
know, writing the big Google doc and
getting everyone on board and all that
um sort of stuff. And so, you know,
as an E8 trying to have that level,
like, you know, that level of impact
that you're expected to have, it's like,
oh, it's hard to do that just writing
code. So, it's like I need to spend at
least some time probably probably
influencing other people. That would
probably be be good for me. That would
probably make my manager happy. Um, and
I think
uh
you know sometimes you're just so
uh confident in in some uh insights you
have that or certainly I was that I
would just I I just came down like way
too hard I would say and uh and that did
not go well for me and yeah and so like
like uh promo got delayed because I was
very excited are anxious about uh when
Microsoft acquired GitHub
and uh oh yeah because new Clyde was
built on this um you know primarily
GitHub technology and I was like that's
going to go away because VS Code's going
to not make them be a project anymore
which was true which did happen and I
was just so
uh anxious that that this was like now a
risk right and I was pushing people but
you know people were I didn't really
account for the fact uh that people were
happy with what they were doing at the
moment and like didn't want their cheese
moved, you know, like uh right out from
under them. And so um you know, I got
like a little bit of a talking to, you
know, I had to wait a little bit for
promo and things like that. But I you
know, I actually got some coaching I
think after that point. I can't remember
the exact chronology um to to work on
that like specifically. What's the
number one thing you learned about
coaching? I would say for me is like um
I think I'm more aware of like things
that trigger me like know be technical
decisions or what have you and recognize
when that's happening and be like okay
let's not act in that moment or you know
if I if I don't think I can have the
conversation like uh or I'm not the in
the best place to have it like maybe I
go talk to the person's manager instead
rather than like you know like bull and
china shop to the engineer and be
So, I have this thing. I'm thinking
about it this way. I'm kind of riled up
about it. Like, help me like how can I,
you know, work with your team or or
whatever like that's happened to you.
>> Well, it's interesting to me in your
career because the promo got postponed
and you were you were seeing that VS
Code was going to come up and the thing
that new cloud was built on was going to
go down and you were actually right in
hindsight too. like in the future that
is what happened and
>> you were battling for what was right yet
you were told calm down a little bit and
this so I mean what are your thoughts
when you saw things play out and you go
actually I was right the whole
>> um I did have some conversations like
about a year later and I was like hey
>> can we balance the ledger a little bit
like it didn't be pretty hard for that
thing and it was kind of good and we we
worked it out I would say
>> okay so I guess that the learning is
just
>> how you went about it, not what you were
like.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um I would say that's true.
>> You seem to have a great time at Meta
and eventually you left. So what was the
thing that drew you to OpenAI?
>> Yeah, I mean um a number of things. I
mean one was uh so I I interviewed at
the end of 2023 with OpenAI I believe
and um and I had spent 2023 at Meta um
trying to do LM based developer tools
right with uh there's a you know we had
our own light version even met like
little version of uh GitHub copilot
right that one did like a paper and a
talk on that one was a code compose
right that was code compose yeah
>> and um you know we uh like now uh
there's a lot of uh uh enthusiasm around
you know delivering quickly and pushing
the boundaries of that sort of stuff and
uh you know I mean truthfully I mean you
know we get feedback on some of these
things it's like why is this not you
know GBT4 and I was like well we're on
like llama 2 it's not the same thing and
uh you know I was not not a researcher
right I was like but I and I you know
just wanted to to build the experiences
right and that sort of thing And um and
so so that was that was one thing was
that like I wanted to build stuff and I
wanted to go to the place where I could
actually build with the best model. Um
you know two again was um similar to
like you know Google originally like
seeing the people who were coming here
to open AAI and I was like well those
are people I really respect. I was like
those are I could actually work with
more senior people you know like meta
eights and nines at open I felt like
that I could where I was um and um you
know third was just like this also seems
like uh and it has been just a very
special place at at the point in time.
So I told a lot of people I was like,
you know, I felt like this would be like
the most similar to starting at Google
in 2000. So not not to 1998, but like
let's say 2000, right? Like they kind of
got some footing and got some, you know,
product market fit. And so like just as
a personal level, that was just a very
exciting thing.
>> Um and um you know, the last one was
that u funny thing is that when I I
really enjoyed calendar because I it was
consumer and I shipped to a lot of
people. I went to Facebook because I
thought huge consumer place. Ended up
not doing consumer at all, right? Ended
up doing developer tools, but like you
know my users were my friends at work.
It was just like 20,000 people, not like
a billion people, but it was good enough
for me at the time. And then, you know,
thinking about OpenAI and then the
chance to actually, you know, come back
to to consumer um or at least like have
a large user base, right? And so now
working on codecs um you know I wonder
if like over a million weeklyies or I
forget how much it is right now um and
and just keeps growing like like you
know hockey stick or more like vertical
line than hockey stick even um that uh
you know so it's like way more than the
20 to 40,000 developers you know you
could affect at meta.
>> Yeah absolutely and dev tooling for the
industry almost.
>> Yeah. Um, Meta when I think of the
company it's kind of engineering driven
like engineers are king and queen I
guess and they kind of like drive
everything. It's very bottoms up from
that sense. And I feel like a lot of the
lab companies are also like that but on
the research side. So rather than
engineer is the first class citizen it's
like let's make sure the research goes
well and for good reason right like
that's also part of why you came is the
models are good. But as an engineer, you
mentioned you weren't doing research.
Um, what are your thoughts on that
researchled culture versus engineering
le culture?
>> I mean, it was certainly an adjustment,
right? I mean, I think if anyone who
comes here and says otherwise is a liar,
but um, you know, if you've been at like
the fangs or whatever. Um, and uh, but
you know, they are, you know, when you
talk about impact, right, which I think
is important, like a real like you
genuinely, you know, mean it. um like I
you know I love the work that I do on
Codex on the harness and I think we do a
lot of very meaningful things um but you
know if the model weren't very good it
wouldn't really matter what we did you
know on the harness right and so um so I
don't uh
so you know that that's how it is I
would say um but I you know I feel
really great like you know we we sit
right next to the the research team uh
work really closely with And um and so
that relationship that we have that we
get to co-develop the thing. I mean that
that was another reason you know leaving
leaving Meta I mean was that for for for
in the LM space was like you know I want
to build the product with the people who
are building the model so we can do this
thing together. I mean may you know
maybe you could do that there sort of
but not anyway the the the impact was
not you know quite quite the same. So
you mentioned I mean when you got here
it sounds like you were working on
codecs and starting uh that project up.
So I understand with the initial launch
of Codex CLI it was uh not exactly what
you hoped for like in terms of the how
it was received but um later it kind of
really all came together. Can you tell
that story?
>> Yeah sure. I mean it's been a wild ride.
So Codeex CLI we launched it in April
2025. It was kind of like this like one
more thing moment at the end of the 03
uh 04 mini uh live stream and uh so we
demoed it live. We open sourced it, you
know, called 3o at that point. Uh a lot
of people tried it out, you know,
everyone was excited to try a new um
coding agent, you know, and it was and
it was pretty good, but it was it was
pretty rushed um to get it out the door,
right? There was um which in some ways
was good for engagement because now
we're open source. we were getting poll
requests, you know, coming in all over
the place and uh I forget, you know, I
feel like we're like 10 to 20,000 stars
in like a week or two or something like
that. So, like that that part was fun
and um you know, there were people who
did like it, you know, like nobody liked
it or anything like that, but then um
but that I I think we didn't we weren't
maybe quite staffed to like really drive
that the way that we needed to. Um
because you know we're we're trying to
cover multiple things as a company and
so you know just a month after that and
you know team of like seven engineers
and I forget how many researchers
launched um codeex web or cloud web um
where you know you use codeex in a
container or you could just you know
kick off a new thing from your phone
which is super cool and um and there
that was like a more wellstaffed effort
and I and I think you know that one is
still the I think the the long-term
vision is is correct. But I think with a
lot of this stuff that we've seen, you
know, you have to bring the the users
with you and and uh and and I think that
one's just like a little bit ahead of
its of its time and people were still
actually more into the the local um
coding agents. And so we kind of, you
know, we saw, you know, the like the web
product like there's a big adoption
initially. It wasn't, you know, as
sticky, I would say, as we we had hoped.
Um and then through the summer, you
know, both products still kept kept uh
you know, we're working on both. Um but
then somewhere that midsummer, again,
like I said, it's like, you know, this
moment like local agents are still the I
guess the stronger product market fit,
but again, I still think in the limit
personally, right? Like uh you you're
going to need more machines than just
your laptop to as a place for agents to
run. And um so we we shifted quite a bit
um over the summer. So we we brought
more people onto the codeci.
Yeah. A few kid things bring more people
on. You know, GBT5 was uh going to come
out and that was looking really really
good. And um a thing I was personally
excited about because I had prototyped
it a couple times before um was that in
addition to the CLI then we also had
enough staffing we also started working
on um the VS code extension and you know
and I felt actually very strongly that
you know the the the terminal is good
for a lot of things but it has a lot of
limitations uh always just it's just
like you make a lot of compromises to
make you know a nice UI in the terminal
whereas VS code we didn't have to make
quite as many compromise devices and um
so I think like August I think was a
crazy month. I think GPT5 came out. I
think we we released our new refresh
terminal UI. Also the GPT open source
model came out. We supported that um in
the in the TUI as well. So that was
really cool that you had, you know, an
open weights model and the and an open
harness and um and then later that month
the VS Code extension, you know, came
out. And so we were just like, you know,
shipping like like crazy. And um and
that's really where like that confluence
of things, I would say, um is where we
started to see the inflection point
that's brought us to like, you know, the
vertical growth that we're that we're at
today. Um and so that's, you know, uh
that's been really exciting. I mean, you
know, some of these things you can you
can go to the repo, check for yourself,
right? And and and you know, gut check
on on some of these things. Um, terms of
number of people, uh, number of commits
and all this sort of thing. Um, and
yeah, so it's it's it's been quite a
ride.
>> You mentioned the local versus the
remote version of these coding agents,
and sounds like you have a lot of
conviction that the right long-term
direction is not the local versions,
it's remote and in the cloud. Why is
that? Well, I think about I think that
the people who actually for whom it is
sticky now and I think there'll be more
of it is that you imagine if you imagine
you want to just automatically
um you know set for the agent every like
GitHub issue or linear tile thing that
comes in or anything like that. I mean
obviously you know there's there's costs
with those things but or or you can it
could be abused but like you know let's
say for an internal private repo right
that you yeah want to be able to just
have it be a piece in in any sort of
automation pipeline right and so you
can't you have all that happening on
your on your laptop and so I guess I
mean you know as a as an individual I
see maybe we'll still personally spend
more time with the local agent but in
terms of uh you know, compute time of
agents doing work, right? I think
getting that set up in the cloud, I
think, you know, a little bit it's like
a little more to get set up right now,
but once you have it, it's it's quite
nice. I see. Okay. So, you're not saying
that product, the local one will change.
You're saying that like across the
industry, the compute that goes towards
agents, majority will be in the cloud.
Yeah, I mean even in um I think when the
VS Code extension first came out, you
know, one of the things was um the
ability to take the conversation that
you were having and like hit a button,
have it like transfer to the cloud if
you were set up to do it,
>> right? And um so I think that we'll
continue to see that where you maybe
you're working on something, you want to
throw it over here, you're like, bring
it back, you know, when it's done. Your
codeex usage is uh 5xed since the
beginning of the year and over a million
people are using it now. I'm curious,
has your AI workflow changed a lot since
you've uh you started to use this newer
version of Codeex?
>> Yeah, it has. It has. Um I'm a much
bigger user of the app now maybe than I
thought I would be. Um I uh yeah, like
for a while I was I was uh very strongly
in like our VS Code extension. Like I
need I want that sidebar. I want all the
code there next to me. I feel like these
things should be, you know, together.
Um, I'm not a I'm not a person who
doesn't look at the code. I'm not a like
a I I don't for for projects that are
like true prototypes that are throwaway
like I will actually not look at the
code. It's very freeing. I understand
why people so excited about it. But for
the code that goes into codeex itself,
I'm like no, I still need to look at
this, right? This is pretty important.
This is like what's going to, you know,
affect everybody else. Um, but you know,
you start to get a sense of, okay, I
like I'm confident the model's gonna be
able to do this, you know, this this
change and this sort of thing. Like I,
you know, I don't need to to babysit it.
I'm going to just like write a lot up
front. And so, you know, I have like
four or five clones of the Codeex repo
on my machine. And I I have enjoyed in
the Codeex app um like the multitasking
I just is is just a lot easier because
now you're just kind of hang out in one
window. Um, and you know, I try and it's
a game exactly, but it's like, you know,
it's like how much throughput can I get,
right? In terms of how many balls can I
juggle in the air? Sometimes it feels
like um it, you know, can it can feel
like a little hectic when you're really
trying to
>> context. context switch
>> but at the same time you're you're like
I I'm getting a lot more done you know
and uh and that you know almost feel a
little bad writing code by hand
sometimes because you're like I I could
have if I had asked this in the right
way I I you know it's like it's like
when you started it was like oh I'm just
going to change these three lines and
then like you know 30 minutes later
you're like oh I kind of you know you
know we all we all like to type still I
think and that sort of thing. What
percent of your code would you say is
human written versus the model generates
it these days?
>> Oh man, it's models be like 80 to 90%. I
mean yeah. Yeah. I mean like I
especially like debugging a test or like
the CI thing is bad. Like I'm like I'm
like hey you know you know how to write
you know print debug whatever like and
that's great. That's really freeing
>> digging into the problems that are
suitable for LLMs and the ones that are
not. like what what do you need to see
where you think okay I need to go in and
you know write it myself what's that 10%
and also what's in that 80 90%
>> yeah I mean that's a good one I think
about that you know because every time I
sit down I'm like like should I write
this I mean the answer is almost always
no um
uh there's
things that are like lower level and
someone you know so codeex the the
harness the part that I you know spend
my time on is in Rust and that means
means that you know we can do and we do
do like operating system specific things
in that codebase. Um and actually and I
spend a lot of time on on the sandboxing
right so the thing that really upholds
like uh you know the security integrity
of what of what we're doing and that the
model can't go outside um you know the
bounds that you set um you know I I do
more of that um by hand because I need
to make sure really sure that that's all
correct right that our test coverage is
is good um or sometimes I'll you know
seed it and then you know once I've got
like the groundwork I'm like Okay, I
have the pieces that I that I was had a
lot of feelings about and then could let
it like fill in the rest and that sort
of thing. But, you know, a lot of like
refactors and things like that.
Actually, think like a lot right now is
like, you know, I'll have to build up a
big, you know, PR that does too many
things, but I know it does too many
things. I'll be like, "Okay, please, you
know, please split this up into
reviewable sized commits." Um, things
like that. Like I think about how much
time I probably spent on that sort of
stuff before and now I can right frees
you up. Um what about um like code
review? Is there like what percent of
lines of code do you and at OpenAI
generally are people reviewing manually
or are there agents that are like yeah
imagine you write a test or something. I
don't really need to review that. I mean
it
>> I would say I liked the approach where
you know the the agent should do
you know multiple rounds of review or
whatever until it's confident and that
that it's like kind of you know worth a
human's time of looking at it. Um but we
still do look at it um like ultimately
before it goes in. I would say generally
speaking um I think there's you know we
have like our agents MD file like
everybody else does. there still
sometimes you find like a gap in
knowledge that needs like that some
context that needs to get added back
into there or it's um yeah just just
things that we haven't yeah memorialized
that that the agent this but like as a
human I I still happen to know right
>> um and things like that so we do catch
things um but you know I'll say actually
now that people are uh also using AI to
write their like pull request summaries
our summaries across the team I would
say are getting way better so now these
It's also when I'm going into review,
right, it's been reviewed by codeex,
there's a summary that's like that we
actually make sure it has like the why
and the what of why, you know, the
reason behind the PR. So that is
certainly I think helping like get
through these PRs faster, which is good
because there was a lot more review to
do.
>> That's I mean that's amazing. I feel
like and 50% of diffs have like you know
almost blank the test plan says you know
>> uh I don't know arc build or whatever
the oh I know but
>> um I want to talk about the the the
codec cli that's that's open source why
is it open source
you know for something that's that
critical to like what's going on on your
machine right like that that like that's
one of the aspects of open source is
that I'm not you know the most um
zealous about this sort of thing but I
but I I sympathize with it this idea
that like hey you're going to put this
thing on my machine I care about what
it's doing right and I think in this
domain in particular it's really
important that people can look at it you
know and have have an idea of what it's
doing um because you know people have a
lot of questions about AI agents and
that sort of thing um and so I think I
think this this this
area this domain I think it's actually
really important um and also we um you
know we have gotten a lot of uh I think
like great compriations and bug reports
and things like that that we um would
have missed out on um and and and then
also I think it's you know um just you
know sharing with the world with like
how this is done um so we do it through
code right I've I've put out um one blog
post about how the agent loop works like
there is plan to do more of that. I'm
actually excited to. It's just, you
know, just it's just time is this liming
factor.
>> Really, not
>> Yeah. It was funny because I had I had I
had two candidates who came through and
one's like he's like, "Hey, I wrote it,
right?" I was like, "No, no, I I wrote
it." And another person came in. He's
like, "Oh, you can tell that that you
know that you did not outsource the
>> Okay, good. Right. I was like, oh, thank
you." You know? Um, so yeah,
>> you mentioned the blog post. How does
Codeex find what is available to it in
its environment? And when I'm running
these things, I'll see it's kind of
amazing. It's thinking to itself and
like discovering all these things in in
my uh terminal. So yeah, how does that
typically work?
>> Yeah, I mean there's, you know, there's
a few. I mean there's obviously what is
you know when Codex is based training
like it loves to use rip grip. It uses
rip grip very well to find all sorts of
things. Um, and then there's, you know,
if you have your agents MD file and
you're say, hey, in this repo, like
these tools are really important, right?
You should use these, right? Or the
readmemes or whatever. Um, or uh
obviously if you use MCP and you
associate these MCP servers with your
um, you know, where you're working on,
right, that that that um injects the set
of tool definitions like at the start of
the the conversation, right? So then uh
that kind of Yeah. So that's that's not
even like discovery on Codex's part,
right? It's kind of just like put front
and center there. I see. So some of it's
the harness explicitly throwing that
into the context
>> and then there is a big chunk though
where the model is just doing all the
heavy lifting of finding things. Is that
right?
>> Yeah.
>> Kind of like reflecting over your
career. The breadth and depth of your
work if we look across all of it. I mean
it's it's insane. you were your
javascript front end then you have all
these dev tool you know build fuzzy file
search you know virtual now you're
working on codecs you I'm sure you had
to uh continue your engineering educa
education to kind of get through all
these projects what are the top
technical books that have helped you
educate yourself
>> yeah I mean um you know so one was this
uh this book on operating systems um
it's like a thousand pages or something
like this. Uh it's the Addison Wesley
book. I'm trying the author, but it was
funny because I was when I was working
on the virtual file system. So I had
actually gotten to that point in my
career without ever writing C like
undergrad like it was like more
theoretical like we just never had to
touch it. And then yet I'm like working
on a virtual file system project and
then like very low operating system.
That's why I was, you know, joke that I
was kind of the worst engineer of the
project. And, you know, and someone said
something and I realized I was like, I
don't know what they're talking about.
This is kind of embarrassing. And I was
just like, you know, what book do I have
to read? And I think my manager, Aaron
Kushner at the time was like, he's like,
well, there's this thousandpage book.
And I was like, done. So, I bought it,
read the thing cover to cover. I like
took it to Hawaii with me. I took it
everywhere until I finished it. It's
it's kind of amazing and sad or weird
that like how um how far many of us can
get like in software engineering without
really having a clue how computers work.
Like there's just so many of those
levels of abstraction. Um but you know
one hand it's very freeing and then on
the other hand it's a little bananas.
And I think that um what I would say to
people right now is um is you know
actively trying to go like deeper
through the layers and understand these
things. Um and uh like cuz many times I
saw other people do it and now I can do
it is that there are problems some other
people could solve that I couldn't solve
because I just didn't know that like
there was this croft between these two
layers and if you got rid of it, right,
you get like a 10x improvement or
something like that, right? If you if
you're just operating so high up, you
don't really know, you know, what you
can what you can break down. um you know
so that um and so in terms of books like
uh I've enjoyed the like the O'Reilly uh
the Rust books um I you know big fan of
Rust um I think but they're also like
well written um and and thorough and
then honestly another thing I've been
telling people um that's not in the book
category but probably more fun and I
learned a lot uh actually um are um
these CTFs are like capture the flag
like security type competitions And
just, you know, it helps with like kind
of like adversarial mindset. it helps
with I think uh they're usually just
like it's like a it's like a dicath like
a computer dicathlon I feel like right
because like like there'll be multiple
challenges and maybe this one you need
to like understand assembly and this one
you need to understand like what
someone's like janky PHP admin pages do
all this sort of thing and it and it
just forces this um breadth on you uh in
a way that's kind of hard to to generate
otherwise and it's also you know just
more fun because it's like a game and
that sort of thing.
>> Can you give some context on what CTF
is? Yeah. So, it's it's it can be a
number of things, but uh it's it's
usually a competition usually in like
the infosc the security domain and
there'll be a set of uh there's like the
Jeopardy style one which is like there's
a bunch of challenges um and like you
know designed like crafted ahead of time
and they all have point values
associated with them and so you know
there's usually some fixed amount of
time and it could be individual it could
be with a team and you're trying to
solve these things and and there's a
flag there's always like a secret, you
know, um, piece of text um, in there
that usually has some format. And the
way is that you basically if you can
discover the secret piece of text, that
means that you have the the challenge is
set up that you would only have gotten
that if you had figured out, you know,
reverse engineered or whatever you were
supposed to do and then you get submit
that piece of text and that's your, you
know, token to demonstrate that you had
solved the challenge. And so it could be
like a race to like solve everything
first or get the most points in a
certain amount of time or different
things like that. So it's like it's kind
of like an escape room but in your
terminal you use only computers to
figure everything out.
>> Yes.
>> I see. Okay. And your recommendation is
people who want to become better
engineers they should invest in doing
some of these CTF because they make you
solve problems that make you a better
engineer.
>> Yeah. and you know and then you you know
also develop skills and things that you
just wouldn't have you know if you're
just like a you know writing react every
day like you're probably not going to
like open up GDB and like reverse a you
know a tic-tac-toe game but like I did
that because of you know a CTF challenge
was to do you know exactly that
>> right
>> um and but then it's like but then I
learned how to use GDB and like and and
then then you start you know when you're
faced with other problems you're like oh
my my just toolkit of of ways to solve
things is just much broader broader a
lot of people especially earlier in
their career they see the power of
codeex doing everything for them in the
terminal and I just imagine them saying
oh well I don't need to learn GDB
because uh Codex knows it so
>> um would what would your advice be given
the landscape of these AI tools for
people thinking about their engineering
education
>> yeah no that's I mean I think everyone's
like struggling to answer that uh
question right now um I do think about
it you a a lot and I I don't have a
great answer. I I I kind of personally
come back to my thing about like
um I still think like trying to
forcefully kind of go through the levels
of of abstraction and just understand um
you know more like at a deeper level how
things work um is going to be important.
I mean I think this will change. I'm
sure this will change over time, but
right now it's still kind of like,
you know, the questions that you asked
the agent is going to affect the quality
of the thing that you get out, right?
So, if you're not asking the right
questions, you're not maybe going to get
the best engineering solution out the
other side. You know, as things go on,
perhaps that will also be, you know,
another layer that's removed. I mean, I
think, you know, that's certainly where
we're going. I don't know what time
frame we'll get there. things do seem to
be happening faster than we expect. But
um
yeah, I think in general, but
learning how to ask what the right
question is and I and I haven't, you
know, for myself even like totally
pinned down what that means for for
someone who's like starting out new,
right? You fortunately have experience
to to fall back on or like that's where
that that that taste or that um
intuition of what to ask has has
developed. But, you know, if you're if
you're starting out, um, I'm still not
sure yet. And it's also hard to say
because we we don't really know 100%
where everything's going.
>> Yeah. When you reflect over your career,
the expectations at these really high
levels is kind of crazy. I mean, it's
like already for most people, this E7 or
senior staff level is this unattainable
level of impact. So someone who gets
promoted to that level is thinking, I
gotta really work super hard now because
the bar is like up here.
>> And then you went two levels past that.
And so I I'm curious like in the
day-to-day now, what what are your
thoughts on these like crazy
expectations? Is it stressful for you?
I mean it never it was never not
stressful I think um for me because I
really I think also because I sat in
calibrations right and I um you know so
for a bunch of other people you know you
talk about their level you talk about
their impact and you know you wanted to
be really fair and have this integrity
around well this level means this thing
and this is the impact like that's what
it means all is that's what exceeds this
and then knowing that like then you're
you know playing it out in your mind
like well someone's sitting in my
calibration and talking about this thing
and they want to be fair, right? And and
it is a little scary like you know you
get to E8 and you're like oh you know
it's a D1 a director
>> and you're like how do I have as much
impact as a person who has maybe like
over a hundred people
>> in their or so that's hard a lot of
people do it again a lot of people who
are I see who do it do it more by
>> uh a different form of people management
right where they're trying to you know
like write the right doc and get the
people aligned and do that sort of thing
and the and the reason that they do it
and are not a director is that
oftentimes the the people I've talked to
people who are in this like that they're
like well I have this technical
credibility or because I built this
thing like when I go to the team and
talk to them it lands differently than
if like a engineering director does or
some version of that right happens a lot
um and so then you know when you when
you say you're influencing you know 50
to 100 people as a senior IC then you're
like oh okay that's like you know D1
impact um you know whereas as as if
you're a coder. I see. Um, uh,
you know, being really thoughtful about
the projects that you pick and it can't
just be a like this is fun for me type
of project. I mean, you know, if you
actually care about, you know, not
getting fired or getting you're getting
like Sam or better. Um, and even when I
would start a project, certainly like
the later I went on, I would think a lot
about like, okay, like I maybe there's
this feature I just want to write it
because it's fun. And I'd be like, uh,
no, I should let somebody else do that
and think about, okay, I mean, it's kind
of like with with Codeex now, like what
code do should I personally write to
maximize my impact versus if someone
else could do it about as well as me,
let's say 80% as good, I should probably
let, you know, have someone else do
that. Um and but but even then you know
if you're leading a fivep person project
is that still you know still getting to
E8 E9 impact still hard. Um so really
finding that that uh project that's a
force multiplier. So, you know, like
like uh like the virtual file system was
a really great project because that was
gonna, you know, we knew that down the
road like this was really going to
unlock so many things, prevent us from
from being completely blocked, right? Um
actually another big part of it is um
and you know one of my managers talked
to me about it is um you know not
actually recognizing senior managers
enough who are the person who um pairs
the senior IC with the right project
>> and uh because some senior engineers are
amazing uh you know fixerscoders
but they're not the idea cumber upers
with and um they're the but they're the
person you want for like you know very
difficult um technical projects. I don't
want to like out anybody here but I have
people in mind and um but but you know a
lot of times it's the manager who
realizes like oh this project needs this
person right and like that person would
have never realized it themselves. one
of your old colleagues, Adam Ernst, I
think I asked him, you know, what are
some other engineers that you admire and
why? And you know, he he mentioned your
name, of course. And specifically, he
talked about your ability to start
projects was really good. And obviously,
I mean, you look at all these projects,
right? I mean, a lot of them you created
them out of nowhere, like it was just
you had an idea and you went off and
built a prototype, you came back and you
were very convincing that it was a
better solution. Do you have any advice
for engineers who they have a a problem
and a solution and they want to like
build a project from scratch? I mean I
think I don't know a lot of good
projects I think come from being a
little bit dissatisfied about about
something, right? And I think um you
know it's funny like sometimes I uh for
better or for worse I was just so
charging ahead and just like building
the thing that like not really thinking
about um like what the best way to do it
was. So, actually a really funny example
is um Google Calendar. So, going back
really far. I was like, I want weather.
I want to have weather all little icons
showing the weather in Google Calendar
and I was like, I'm going to do it, you
know. And I had mostly been JavaScript
especially and not done any of the
backend stuff. And I just like charged
through and I cobbled things together
and uh you know, made it happen. And
then then my tech lead was like, "Wait,
how are you um how are you storing that
information about like the weather and
stuff and I was like, "Oh, I I just
like, you know, threw a blob of like XML
and everything like thing." He's like,
he's like, "We should have talked about
protocol buffers or I was like, you
know, like binary formats and save bytes
that I like I was just so, you know, set
on weather of all things that like I
never bothered to ask anybody if there
was like a better way to do what I was
doing." I was like, "It's done." So I I
mean I guess that's a a unique skill of
yours is the digging into the satis
dissatisfaction and solving your own
problems. Seems like almost every single
one of these projects is I want my I
want something to happen. This this
shouldn't be this way and then you went
and you solved it.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um but I think another unique
thing that I see is a lot of people they
they get to work and they I don't know
they're they're in their dev
environment. I'm sure there were many
other people who saw with the buck story
for instance they go oh wow this build
is really slow oh well like I guess I'm
going to go to the micro kitchen and get
call it builds
>> what gave you the confidence to know
that you could make it so much better
>> I mean that one was you know I I have to
credit like having been at Google I
never worked on the Blaze team I never
knew how that like worked I never
touched their code or anything but I was
like I know that there's a thing out
there that has this shape and is a lot
better in this thing. So that's an
existence proof.
>> Um whether I could do it or not like
TBD, right? But I think that was helpful
on that one.
>> Um you know I yeah I mean there's a lot
of I guess prior art that gives me you
know confidence and things and I think
and you know I usually generally
identify myself as a coding machine. I
guess with codeex now everyone wants a
coding machine but um that you know I
felt that I always had confidence like
you know build a prototype correctly
right and at least answer that question
or like the basic my test my basic
hypothesis like spiritually should there
be a way forward to this thing that I
think should exist and you know
generally I could you know you're if you
are determined you find a way
>> yeah I've noticed that pattern um a lot
of people who go to big companies they
see this worldclass infrastructure and
then they go to the other company. Oh,
you don't have this, you don't have
this. And they build their, you know,
those new versions of it.
>> I've read a lot of your writing at this
point, and it is so clear. It's some of
the best examples of good technical
writing. What advice would you have for
engineers who want to write better?
>> I mean, I think a lot of it is well, I
think reading other good writing is a is
a certainly a good start, right? You
started maybe, you know, consciously or
subconsciously start to pick up patterns
of like what what is out there. I think
um you know really high level thinking
about like what what is it that I'm
trying to convey? What would someone
actually really want to know um and and
outlining a lot up front, right? Is that
a lot of people give that feedback, but
it's it's impressive how how really
important that is and just being like
does this set of things like linearly
follow? I think is a big thing. And and
and then asking yourself, oh, I went
from this point to this point. Was that
too big of a jump? Is there something
that like somebody actually like would
have reasonably missed? And I think
uh personally I feel like that's I have
I have reasonable feel for like what
where that gap would arise. And like and
then if you can kind of anticipate that
and magically put in the example that
like someone would have that someone
needed to make that jump. Um I think
like that at least for for technical
writing is like is is a big deal.
you have that career note that I love
and at the at the beginning of it uh you
lay out this three-step plan for impact.
>> Can you explain that three three stuff
on early? Feel like that's a good
algorithm for people to use in their
careers.
>> Step one is uh figure out what you
really like to do, right? And you know,
as I mentioned, like it's good to
broaden that, but it's also good to to
be honest with yourself so you don't
know. and like the the quote the hero
quest that I went on that that didn't
pan out because I I was working on stuff
that I didn't really, you know, truly
love. Um, and then two, step two was
figuring out what your employer is,
what's really valuable to them, right?
And as I talked about at Google, I I
didn't do a good job of that. I did
stuff that I was really excited about,
but it wasn't, you know, it wasn't uh,
you know, AdWords for Google or anything
like that. Um, yeah. And then step three
is like find that intersection and then
just really lean into that. Um, and you
know, the more that you can do that, I
think the more successful, you know,
you're going to be and and and the and
the challenge is sometimes it's not
always there, right? And maybe you have
to go, you know, find somewhere else to
make that happen.
>> Okay. And then, yeah, last question for
you is, uh, if you go back to yourself
at the beginning of your career knowing
everything you know now, what advice
would you give yourself? I think I
should have been
open to learning more things sooner and
and I I you know to be a little gentle
to myself and I think other people are
in that situation is that you know
there's so much to learn when you're
starting and then whatever your first
programming language is I think it's
funny I think everyone has a soft spot
for they'll like make excuses for it
like ever like oh this no it's a totally
good language and I think it's because
it's like the first thing that enabled
you to do a thing you know do anything
right and And then it's like, oh, okay,
I can finally do something. It's such a
relief. And um and but it's also like a
hazard because like then you kind of
want to hold on to that thing because
like you're finally productive and now
you're like, ah, it took so long to get
to this foothold. I don't know how long
it's going to take to get to the next
foothold. So I think like in you know,
my particular case, I probably did maybe
went too deep with JavaScript and like
like I said, it took a long time before
I wrote NEC. Um, and I think uh, you
know, I if I had been a little bit more
curious and a little more flexible in
terms of what like types of projects I
was willing to take on or things I was
willing to learn and you know it came
eventually, but I think if uh that is
probably the biggest thing that maybe
could have made a shift for me earlier.
Yeah, I I gather from your story there
was um a point with the Xcode where you
said you you you hated Objective C and
then you you were you were coming up
with like ways to compile the Objective
C into Java or Java into Objective C or
something like that maybe and then
>> you know also talking about the C++ for
miles. It was like
>> it it seemed like a very concerted okay
I'm going to I'm going to learn this as
opposed to like just kind of being open
to it. So
>> yeah. Yeah, makes sense. Well, maybe
with codecs in the future, it'll be less
of a hurdle for people. You could just
kind of say, "Hey, I know JavaScript.
Write this in Rust or whatever." No,
it's true. Opens a lot of doors.
>> Sure.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you so much for
your time. I appreciate it. All right.
Thank you, Ryan.
>> Thank you for listening to the podcast.
It's a passion project of mine that I've
really enjoyed building. Another passion
project that I've been working on kind
of in secret is building an ergonomic
keyboard that I wish existed and I
finally have a prototype. So, I'd love
to show you what we've built. It's ultra
lowprofile and ergonomic, and I couldn't
find anything like it on the market, so
that's why we built it. I'll put a link
to the keyboard in the description. You
can take a look and learn more about the
project there. We could definitely use
your support. Also, if you have any
feedback for me about the show, I'd love
to hear it. Comments on YouTube have led
to guests coming on like Ilia Gregoric
and David Fowler. I wasn't aware of them
until someone dropped a comment. Also,
feedback in the comments helped me learn
to reduce the number of cliffhers in the
intros. So, your comments definitely
make a difference. Please keep letting
me know what you'd like to see more of
in the show, and I'll see you in the
next episode.